so next we're going to work on the top
sirloin heart or the top sirloin butt end
this is the largest of the three
muscles now we could use this as
a roast and this makes a beautiful roast
it's approximately three pounds in size
or we can cut steaks from it and very common
to see top sirloin steaks now when I cut
when I'm cutting a steak from a large muscle like
this I like to use a large knife this is what is
referred to as a steak knife and it's because this
particular knife's angle it gives me an extra inch
within this curvature which improves my overall
cut so when I am cutting I start with my tip
and it just increases the surface area when i'm
making that single slice if you can cut a steak
with a single stroke it'll avoid us getting
what I like to call gills in my steak and i
can show you what that looks like quickly but if
you're cutting with a lot of different strokes
what ends up happening is oftentimes it
really comes out in your steak and that's
something that you want to avoid and this is
why we we like to use these large steak knives
so here we have our three different steaks or
four different ways of cutting a sirloin steak
we have the cut from the whole muscle
we have the heart steaks, the baseball
and then the cap or the pecanha steaks
just to show that,
I left the cap quite large
so it's not uncommon to see these merchandised
with either less cap
or no cap